Update migration guide from a RN (#33)
renative-org/renative-website: docs/overview/migrating-react-native.md

original_id: migrating_react_native
---

ReNative supports react-native projects pretty much out of the box in terms of your application code

Due to variety of possibilities / complexity fo react-native projects (ie plugins, custom build scripts and so on) there might be some extra work required to reconnect existing plugins

---

## Migration Guide

1. Install rnv
2. Create new project `rnv new` (pick @rnv/template-starter)
3. Follow rest of the steps of new project installation.
4. After first `rnv run ...` check out the codebase.

### ReNative Project Folder Structure
For more information about the project structure, please visit this <a href="/docs/overview/architecture#build-process">link</a>.

The `src/` folder contains the source content for your application. The initial structure of the `src/` folder includes the following subfolders:

-   `app`: This folder contains the main files for your application.
-   `entry`: This folder allows you to configure the launch settings of your app. It is intended for advanced configuration and customization.

> -   `pages`: This folder enables you to create individual pages. This is only used for web development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `pages`: This folder is needed for web in case you are using Next.js engine, if you don't plan to support web or don't want to use Next.js, don't include it
```

:::info
You are not restricted to the three specified folders. Within the `src/` directory, you have the flexibility to create your own folders to organize styles, components, and any other necessary resources.
:::

If you also installed some react native plugins in your project make sure to move them to `./renative.json` config file under `plugins` object. 

Renative uses standard react native plugins so plugin names will stay same!

ReNative does not utilize autolinking as React Native does. 
Therefore, it's important to manually move and configure packages in your renative.json file. 
Proper handle of dependencies:

- Transfer the necessary packages to the renative.json file.
    For example:
    ```
    "plugins": {
        "react-native": {

>             "version": "0.73.4",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Maybe better to exclude this as it would probably not work with the latest react native version if there are changes.

            "source": "rnv"
        }
    }
    ```

> - If some dependencies do not have existing mappings in ReNative, you will need to implement them manually. For more information, please visit this  <a href="/docs/concepts/plugins#custom-plugin-support">link</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As in the above example all the necessary linking will be handled by ReNative, however some dependencies do not have existing mappings in ReNative (can be checked [here](https://github.com/flexn-io/commonwealth/blob/main/packages/plugins/pluginTemplates/renative.plugins.json)), you will need to implement them manually. For more information, please visit this  <a href="/docs/concepts/plugins#custom-plugin-support">link</a>.
```

### Update Project Configuration Files
When transferring your project, it's essential not to overlook updating your configuration files. This includes:
- babel.config.js
- tsconfig.json
- next.config.js
- react-native.config.js
- And any other relevant configuration files

Ensuring these files are correctly configured will help avoid issues and ensure smooth operation of your project.

You can utilize ReNative's configuration methods to add your custom configurations. For example:
```
module.exports = withRNVRNConfig({
  //custom configurations
  ...
});

> ```

Reviewer: Maybe you should mention which file is this and include the import in the example

original_id: migrating_react_native
---

ReNative supports react-native projects pretty much out of the box in terms of your application code

Due to variety of possibilities / complexity fo react-native projects (ie plugins, custom build scripts and so on) there might be some extra work required to reconnect existing plugins

---

## Migration Guide

1. Install rnv
2. Create new project `rnv new` (pick @rnv/template-starter)
3. Follow rest of the steps of new project installation.
4. After first `rnv run ...` check out the codebase.

### ReNative Project Folder Structure
For more information about the project structure, please visit this <a href="/docs/overview/architecture#build-process">link</a>.

The `src/` folder contains the source content for your application. The initial structure of the `src/` folder includes the following subfolders:

-   `app`: This folder contains the main files for your application.
-   `entry`: This folder allows you to configure the launch settings of your app. It is intended for advanced configuration and customization.

> -   `pages`: This folder enables you to create individual pages for your application.

Reviewer: This should be stated, that is reserved for Next.js, if they don't do web, they don't need it, they can also specify a different folder in appConfigs/renative.json, but this is not just for individual pages for all platforms

Author: changed

:::info
You are not restricted to the three specified folders. Within the `src/` directory, you have the flexibility to create your own folders to organize styles, components, and any other necessary resources.
:::

If you also installed some react native plugins in your project make sure to move them to `./renative.json` config file under `plugins` object. 

Renative uses standard react native plugins so plugin names will stay same!

For example:

```
"plugins": {

>     "react-native": "0.73.4"

Reviewer: I think about plugins it should be stated, that renative does not use autolinking, which is used by react native, therefore not only the packages need to be moved to renative.json like you show, but should be moved as such:
```
"react-native": {
     "version": "0.73.4",
     "source": "rnv"
}
```
And if for some of their dependencies mapping does not exist, they will need to implement it

Author: added

}
```
In the `./renative.json` configuration file, you have the option to add additional plugin configurations. For more information, please visit this  <a href="/docs/concepts/plugins#custom-plugin-support">link</a>.

:::warning Remember to Update Project Configuration Files

> When transferring your project, it's essential not to overlook updating your configuration files. This includes:

Reviewer: Maybe should mention that it would be with imports from renative withRnvBabel and such

Author: added withRnvBabel example
